# Terraform Workspaces

Workspaces allow the use of multiple states with a single configuration directory.. This feature is particularly useful when you need to deploy the same infrastructure in different environments, such as development, staging, and production, without having to duplicate the Terraform configuration files.

### Advantages
1. **Environment Isolation:**
Workspaces provide an easy way to isolate different environments, ensuring that changes in one environment do not affect another.

2. **Simplified Configuration Management:**
You can use the same Terraform configuration files for multiple environments, reducing the need for duplicated code and making it easier to maintain.

3. **Ease of Switching Contexts:**
Switching between workspaces is straightforward, allowing you to quickly shift your focus from one environment to another.

4. **Consistent Naming Conventions:**
Workspaces help enforce consistent naming conventions for resources across different environments.


### Steps to Configure

1. **Initialize Terraform:**
First, initialize your Terraform configuration if you haven’t already.

```powershell
terraform init
```

2. **Create a Workspace:**
To create a new workspace, use the terraform workspace new command followed by the name of the workspace.

```powershell
terraform workspace new <workspace_name>
```

- Example - Create Development Workspace:
```powershell
terraform workspace new development
```

- Example - Create Staging Workspace:
```powershell
terraform workspace new staging
```

- Example - Create Production Workspace:
```powershell
terraform workspace new production
```

3. **List Workspaces:**
To list all existing workspaces, use the terraform workspace list command.

```powershell
terraform workspace list
```

4. **Select a Workspace:**
o switch to a different workspace, use the terraform workspace select command followed by the name of the workspace.

```powershell
terraform workspace select <workspace_name>
```

- Example - Switch to Development Workspace:
```powershell
terraform workspace select development
```

- Example - Switch to Staging Workspace:
```powershell
terraform workspace select staging
```

- Example - Switch to Production Workspace:
```powershell
terraform workspace select production
```

5. **Show Current Workspace:**
To display the currently active workspace, use the terraform workspace show command.

```powershell
terraform workspace show
```

6. **Delete a Workspace:**
If you need to delete a workspace, use the terraform workspace delete command. Note that you cannot delete the default workspace.

```powershell
terraform workspace delete <workspace_name>
```

By using workspaces, you ensure that each environment maintains its own state files, preventing conflicts and making it easier to manage infrastructure changes across different stages of your deployment process.